# Peter Rasmussen, Lab 3

This Python package adds, subtracts, and multiplies polynomial expressions. 

## Getting Started

The package is designed to be executed as a module from the command line. The user must specify the
input and output file paths, as illustrated below.

```shell
python -m path/to/lab3 -p path/to/poly_infile.txt -e path/to/eval_infile.txt -o path/to/outfile.txt
```

Optionally, the user may specify True for the --test flag to run the tests module. Additionally, the
user may specify a file header that is prepended to the outputs. The example below illustrates usage
of the optional arguments. Finally, the user may add additional operators (e.g., %) if desired.

```shell
python -m path/to/lab3 -p path/to/poly_infile.txt -e path/to/eval_infile.txt -o path/to/outfile.txt -t True -f "Your Header"
```

A summary of the command line arguments are below.

Positional arguments:

    -e, --evaluation_in_file    Evaluation Input File Pathname
    -p, --polynomial_in_file    Polynomial Input File Pathname
    -o, --out_file              Output File Pathname

Optional arguments:

    -h, --help                  Show this help message and exit
    -f, --file_header           Input custom file header above output file
    -t, --test                  Indicate True to run tests

## Features

* Uses circular-linked list data structure whose nodes are themselves lists of polynomial terms
* Supports up to 26 variables (a, b, ... z) 
* Error handling for invalid symbols, type errors, and value errors
* Options to run tests & write custom output file header
* Runtime statistic appended to end of output file

## Input and Output Files

The ```resources/``` directory contains a set of input files and outputs generated by running the
module using the default optional arguments. Required inputs and outputs are included in this directory.

## Example Output File

An example of the output is shown below.

Outputs are organized by operation (e.g., A+B). For each operation, the input polynomial expression

is echoed and the output expression (e.g., result of A+B) is one line below. A simple table
summarizes the evaluated answer alongside the evaluation set (e.g., x1y2z3). Below the polynomial
expression operation and evaluation outputs is total runtime.

Example output file:

    # Peter Rasmussen, Lab 3
    # Polynomial simplification and evaluation
    # Input files:
    #	/Users/peter/PycharmProjects/PRasmussenLab3/resources/additional_polynomial_input_04.txt
    #	/Users/peter/PycharmProjects/PRasmussenLab3/resources/additional_evaluation_input_02.txt
    # Output file: /Users/peter/PycharmProjects/PRasmussenLab3/resources/additional_output_04_02.txt

    @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
    Polynomial input expression definitions
    A = 31a3b4c3d4e1+11a4b1c0d0e0-1a4b1c3d3e3-13a2b3c2d4e0+24a1b3c4d4e3
    B = 7a1b4c2d3e1-29a1b2c3d0e2-25a3b2c0d4e3+6a4b2c0d1e2-1a1b0c2d0e3
    C = a2b1c3d1e1-10a2b1c0d3e4+23a4b2c2d3e2+16a0b2c2d3e2-5a2b1c1d1e2
    D = 4a3b1c0d1e2+24a4b4c2d0e2+28a2b3c2d1e0+18a1b3c0d2e1-16a1b4c4d0e2
    A+B
    Input:	(31a3b4c3d4e1+11a4b1c0d0e0-1a4b1c3d3e3-13a2b3c2d4e0+24a1b3c4d4e3)+(7a1b4c2d3e1-29a1b2c3d0e2-25a3b2c0d4e3+6a4b2c0d1e2-1a1b0c2d0e3)
    Output:	31a3b4c3d4e1+11a4b1c0d0e0-1a4b1c3d3e3-13a2b3c2d4e0+24a1b3c4d4e3+7a1b4c2d3e1-29a1b2c3d0e2-25a3b2c0d4e3+6a4b2c0d1e2-1a1b0c2d0e3
    Evaluation Set			Answer
    a0b4c1d5e4				0
    a2b3c5d0e1				-64772

    # @@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@@
    # Peter Rasmussen, Lab 3
    # Input file: /Users/peter/PycharmProjects/PRasmussenlab3/resources/additional_input.txt
    # Output file: /Users/peter/PycharmProjects/PRasmussenlab3/resources/additional_output.txt



Header statements make up the first four lines of the output file. Prefix processing outputs are
listed line by line thereafter. Each line of prefix output begins with the line number of the
corresponding prefix expression. Then, the original prefix statement is echoed. Finally, the postfix
expression is written. Below the conversion outputs are complexity outputs: time and number of
loops, a crude proxy for space complexity.

Below the prefix-postfix outputs is a footer which provides a brief complexity summary. This summary
lists the number of lines, runtime (in nanoseconds), and runtime per line for the three key methods
used in this program: run (in run.py), PrefixPreprocessor.preprocess_prefix_input (in
prefix_preprocessor.py), and PrefixConverter.convert_prefix_to_postfix (in prefix_converter.py).
The prefix_converter method complexity summary also includes the total number of recursive calls
made. More details on these functions, including their definitions, are provided in each respective
module.

Prefix statements with syntax errors are not converted into postfix. Instead, an error message
encapsulated in PrefixSyntaxError object is written to in lieu of a postfix expression.

## Licensing

This project is licensed under the MIT license.
